docs: make README more descriptive (#14)
VeryGoodOpenSource/flame_behaviors: README.md

---

Flame Behaviors was created to make it easier to create scalable, testable games with a 
well-defined structure. It applies the
[separation of concerns][separation_of_concerns] to the game logic, in the form of 
[Entities](#entity) and [Behaviors](#behavior).

Imagine you want to build an old school [Pong game](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pong). At its 
very core are two objects: a paddle and a ball. If you have a look at the paddle, you could say 
its game logic is: move up and move down. The ball has the simple game logic of: on collision with 
a paddle reverse the movement direction.

These objects, paddles and balls, are what we call entities. And the game logics we just described 

> are their behaviors. And by applying these behaviors to each individual entity we get the core 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
are their behaviors. By applying these behaviors to each individual entity we get the core 
```

---

Flame Behaviors was created to ensure that games created at VGV are scalable, testable and have a 
well defined structure in the code-base. By applying 
[separation of concerns][separation_of_concerns] to the game logic, in the form of 
[Entities](#entity) and [Behaviors](#behavior), the package allows game developers to write 

> structured code for their games that is both scalable and testable.

Reviewer 2: nice

Bit confused on what we mean with Entities and Behaviors? No worries, just imagine you want to 
build an old school [Pong game](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pong), at its very core it exists 
out of two objects, a paddle and a ball. If we have a look at the paddle you could say its game 
logic is: move up and move down. And the ball has the simple game logic of: on collision with a 
paddle, reverse movement direction.

> These objects, paddles and balls, are what we call Entities. And those game logics we just 
> described are their Behaviors. And by applying these behaviors to each individual entity we get 
> the core gameplay loop of Pong: hitting balls with our paddles until we win.
> 
> So to circle back, by defining what kind of entities our game has and describing what type of 
> behaviors they may hold, we can easily turn a game play idea into a structured game that is both 
> testable and scalable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These objects, paddles and balls, are what we call entities. And the game logics we just 
described are their behaviors. And by applying these behaviors to each individual entity we get 
the core gameplay loop of Pong: hitting balls with our paddles until we win.

By defining what kind of entities our game has and describing what type of 
behaviors they may hold, we can easily turn a gameplay idea into a structured game that is both 
testable and scalable.
```

> ## Usage ✨

Author: I tried to add some context to what it really is, why it exists. And added a zoomed out view of what it all means.

> ## Usage ✨

Author: I tried to add some context to what it really is, why it exists. And added a zoomed out view of what it all means.

### Entity

> The entity is the building block of a game. It represents a visual game object that can hold 
> multiple `Behavior`s which in turn define how the entity behaves.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The entity is the building block of a game. It represents a visual game object that can hold multiple `Behavior`s, which in turn define how the entity behaves.

```

What does building block of a game mean? Does a game consist of multiple entities? I think it would be super helpful to zoom out and talk about the overall structure of a game (e.g. is game loop at all relevant here??) and how entities fit within that.

```dart
// Define a custom entity by extending `Entity`.
class MyEntity extends Entity {
  MyEntity() : super(behaviors: [MyBehavior()]);
}
```

### Behavior

> A behavior is a component that defines how an entity behaves. It can be attached to an `Entity` 
> and handle a specific behavior for that entity. Behaviors can either be generic for any entity 
> or you can specify the specific type of entity it requires:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A behavior is a component that defines how an entity behaves. It can be attached to an `Entity` 
and handle a specific behavior for that entity. Behaviors can either be generic for any entity 
or you can specify the specific type of entity that a behavior requires:
```

```dart
// Can be added to any type of Entity.
class MyGenericBehavior extends Behavior {
  ...
}

// Can only be added to MyEntity and subclasses of it.
class MySpecificBehavior extends Behavior<MyEntity> {
  ...
}
```

> Each behavior can have it's own `Component`s for adding extra functionality related to the 
> behavior. For instance a `TimerComponent` to have time based behavioral activity:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Each behavior can have its own `Component`s for adding extra functionality related to the 
behavior. For instance a `TimerComponent` can implement a time-based behavioral activity:
```

```dart
class MyBehavior extends Behavior {
  @override
  Future<void> onLoad() async {
    await add(TimerComponent(period: 5, repeat: true, onTick: _onTick));
  }

  void _onTick() {
    // Do something every 5 seconds.
  }
}
```

> **Note**: A behavior, by definition, cannot have it's own `Behavior`s. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: A behavior, by definition, cannot have its own `Behavior`s. 
```
Why not? Can we add another sentence as to why? Was it just an implementation choice? It's not super obvious to me on first read.

#### Input behaviors

> The `flame_behaviors` package also provides input behaviors, these behaviors are just a 
> sugarcoating over the existing Flame input mixins for components. These behaviors will 
> trigger when their parent entity is being interacted with by the user. So these events 
> are always relative to the parent entity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `flame_behaviors` package also provides input behaviors. These behaviors are a 
layer over the existing Flame input mixins for components. These behaviors will 
trigger when their parent entity is being interacted with by the user. So these events 
are always relative to the parent entity.
```

```dart
class MyDraggableBehavior extends DraggableBehavior<MyEntity> {
  @override
  bool onDragUpdate(DragUpdateInfo info) {
    // Do something on drag update event.
    return super.onDragUpdate(info);
  }
}
```

**Note**: You still need to add the corresponding input mixins to your game class, see the 
[Flame input docs](https://docs.flame-engine.org/1.2.0/flame/inputs/inputs.html) for more 
information.

### Collision detection

> Flame comes with a powerful built-in [collision detection system](https://docs.flame-engine.org/1.2.0/flame/collision_detection.html) 
> but this API is not strongly typed. Components always get the colliding component as a 
> `PositionComponent` and developers need to manually check what type of class it exactly is. And 
> because `flame_behaviors` is all about enforcing a strongly typed API, it provide a special 
> behavior called `CollisionBehavior` that describe what type of entity it is interested for 
> collision. It does not however do any real collision detection, that is done by the 
> `PropagatingCollisionBehavior`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Flame comes with a powerful built-in [collision detection system](https://docs.flame-engine.org/1.2.0/flame/collision_detection.html), but this API is not strongly typed. Components always get the colliding component as a `PositionComponent` and developers need to manually check what type of class it is. 

`flame_behaviors` is all about enforcing a strongly typed API. It provides a special behavior called `CollisionBehavior` that describes what type of entity it will target for collision. It does not, however, do any real collision detection. That is done by the `PropagatingCollisionBehavior`.
```

> It does this by registering a hitbox on the parent entity and when that hitbox has a collision the 
> `PropagatingCollisionBehavior` checks if the component that the parent entity is colliding with is 
> of a any interested for any of the `CollisionBehavior` on the parent entity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It does this by registering a hitbox on the parent entity. When that hitbox has a collision, the 
`PropagatingCollisionBehavior` checks if the component that the parent entity is colliding with contains the target type of entity specified in `CollisionBehavior`.
```

I tried to condense this, may need to double check for accuracy.

Author: I added it with a slight adjust to make it more code accurate, but overal much better. Appreciate that <3

> This comes with two benefits, the first and most important one is performance. By only registering

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This comes with two benefits, the first and most important one is performance. By only registering
```

What comes with two benefits? Not sure what "this" is referring to.

Author: Rewrote this to make it more clear what `this` is (by removing it) and made the whole paragraph more connected to the benefits

> collision callbacks on the entities themselves the collision detection system does not have to 
> go through any "collidable" behaviors, for which there could be many per entity. We only do that now
> if we confirm a collision has happened. The second benefit is [separation-of-concerns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_concerns).
> Each `CollisionBehavior` handles a specific collision use-case and ensures the developer does not
> have to write a bunch of if statements in one big method to figure out what it is colliding with.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
collision callbacks on the entities themselves, the collision detection system does not have to 
go through any "collidable" behaviors, for which there could be many per entity. We only do that now
if we confirm a collision has happened. 

The second benefit is to implement the [separation-of-concerns](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Separation_of_concerns). Each `CollisionBehavior` handles a specific collision use case and ensures the developer does not have to write a bunch of if statements in one big method to figure out what it is colliding with.
```
